Hi guys and welcome back.
In this section, we're going to start looking at Tkinter.
And we're gonna be using Python 3.
I know that most of you are already using Python 3,
but for this section, it is especially important
that you use Python 3
because it has all the latest Tkinter updates.
Use the latest version that you can.
In this case I'm gonna be using Python 3.7.
3.8 has just come into beta, so I'm not using it yet,
but what we covered in this section
should work for Python 3.8 and later as well.
As I said though, I'm using 3.7
and I recommend you do as well.
In order to create a project in PyCharm using Python 3.7,
I'm sure you know how to do that already.
I'm just going to create a folder for my project
and I'm gonna call it gui development.
Make sure to not call your project Tkinter,
as that is going to conflict with the imports later on.
And then for the environment,
select a new environment using pipenv
and then make sure the base interpreter is Python 3.7.
All right, that's everything you need
in order to create your project.
So once that's done, we should be able to use Tkinter.
To verify that Tkinter is working in your system,
all you have to do is create a file inside this project.
And name it whatever you want, I'm gonna call it test.py.
And in here, type import tkinter.
Now if, as you're typing, PyCharm has this recommendation,
that means you're all good to go, that's first of all.
But just to make 100% sure, after import tkinter,
type tkinter_test, like that.
Now PyCharm will complain about this, but that's okay.
And we're going to run this file
and you should get a little window
that looks similar to this.
If you get anything at all, that isn't an error,
that means you're good to go.
But, you should get a little window
that is essentially a sample Tkinter app.
If that happens in your system, you're good to go,
you can continue to the next video.
If it doesn't, you'll need to go through installing Tkinter.
Now that is fairly straightforward in most systems.
All you have to do is reinstall Python
or instal a late version of Python, like 3.7,
and make sure that tk/tcl is selected in the instal.
And you shouldn't have to worry about it
on Mac and on Linux, it should all just work fine.
Thanks for joining me in this video.
Let's get started with Tkinter.
I'll see you in the next one.